GIT+GIT HUB
GIt is a popular version control system(it tracks whole history).
**git is free open source and scalable and used fror collobrative tasks.
clear to clear terminal


Git Commands.
git config --list
git config --global user.name "RohitSatya"
git config --global user.email "rohitsatya45@gmail.com"
git clone httppath; it clones all files in github to folder which we created.
cd alpha (cd refers to change directory)--if we are are in aem code base folder and we want to go to 
alpha folder we need to use this command.
ls gives all files in our curent folder.
ls -a /ls -Force in github shows hidden files and non hidden files..
git status --it shows both your istance and remote are upto date.
git status has four states
1.untracked -newly created file in local.
2.Modified-modified now in local.
3.unmodified-no changes
4.staged=added ready to commit.

to steps to add changes we made in local 
1.git add file name or git add . (if we have multiple files.
2. git commit -m message
3.git push origin master to push changes to master in github

note1:cd.. to come out of current older.
note 2: mkdir filename to create new folder.

if we cretate new project on our local then we need to give git init to add it to git.
git init
git add .
git commit -m message
now new step to add this local code in to git.-->git remote add origin respository link.
1.git remote add origin new repository link.
2.git remote -v//gives the the new branch we created in github
3.git branch //give master branch name.
4.intialy master braanch is our default branch now github changed main branch to default branch.
4.1 git branch -M main(it will change master name to main).
5.git push -u origin master //if we give -u(upstream) from  we can give only git push

*** working with branches.
git branch//to check which branch we are in 
git branch -M new name)to change branch name).
git checkout branchname(branchname here is new branch we want to go to).
git checkout -b newbranchname
git branch -d branchname(we should go to other branch and delete this.)


Note: if we want to check difference in our feature branch with repect to main we need to give
git diff main.
git merge branchname(main).
git pull origin main(to get changes from github after pr merge).


Merge conflicts : if we made changes in same code then it will occur during pr's.


Note: for undoing changes.
if we want to undo changes.(in case onlly changes added not committed).
git reset filename.
if multiple files
git reset

to revert to lasr commit
git reset HEAD~1

git log --> to check all our commits.

git reset hash which we get fro  logs.

git reset --hard hascode -- to remove changes locally from intelij





